Welcome back.
How was it.
You get it.
Was it a tough question.
Don't get too disappointed if you weren't able to get the answer these questions are meant to be tough
to stretch your mind.
If they were too simple then you wouldn't be learning anything.
Let's start off with the naive approach that is the approach that first comes to mind.
For me the very first one is going to be a nested for loop.
Let's have a function.
I'm going to call it first.
Recurring character.
It's going to receive an input.
And because we've already talked about it I'm not going to do any input validation.
We can just assume that we're always going to get some sort of numbered array in here.
I'm going to loop again and oh boy I've done this so many times by now.
I hope you're getting sick and tired of just looping through arrays.
But hey now at least we are masters of loops.
Plus plus.
So in here in the first loop we're going to grab the first item in the array and let's just call this
function.
So we have it here.
Nice and easy.
And gives us a nice visual.
So I'm going to loop through the first item then the fifth or the second the third the fourth and keeps
going keeps going.
I want to grab this item and then do another loop and check two versus five.
Two versus one two versus two and then say that's the one.
If it doesn't find anything it's going to go to the next five and then compare 5 to 1 1 to 2 2 2 3 and
so on.
So once again I'm just going to copy and paste this time because we have done a lot of four loops and
simply change the variable to be j.
We're going to start at 1 because we don't want to compare two to two.
We want to compare two to five.
To start off so we're just skipping a loop which will help us.
I'm going to say Jay here and J plus plus Now some of you may have been caught here because if we have
it the way it is right now and you console log this loop you'll see that it won't work properly because
every time this shifts the outer for loop shifts from let's say zero to the next one the one index Jay
is going to be reset to 1.
So 5 is going to get compared to 5 and the function's going to assume a fives.
The reoccurring character.
So a little trick here is to do pi plus one that is we always go one to the right of where HIAS the
first indexes.
So if we're looping looping and we're at here the sub loop the nested loop is going to look at I plus
1.
So it's going to compare two to three two to five to to-I because well we've already compared to 2 2
5 2 5 5 2 2 1 2 2 and previous loops.
All right.
We've done that in here.
We can simply do an if statement saying in part.
Does that equal the input J does to equal to 5.
Does two equal to 1 does too equal to 2.
If that equals then just simply return and put
otherwise.
If we do all this work and nothing happens we can just return
undefined.
Let's see if that works.
I'm going to run it and I get two awesome What if I change this to one if I run this I get one perfect
What if I do just a single item in an array I get undefined if I do an empty array I get undefined.
That's good.
What if I do 1 1 or 1 1 I get 1.
That's great.
If I do want to I get undefined awesome.
This looks to be working nice and simple but as you can see here we're not being very efficient.
We have nested loops which should trigger Oh this is all of and squared.
And although technically we're actually always looping a little bit more efficient because of I plus
I were not looping twice over the entire array.
In the end when you remove the constants and simplify things it's still going to be 0 and square.
So how can we solve this using hash tables.
Well let's create a new function.
We'll call this function by the same name this time.
Number two version 2 it's going to receive an input.
And let's change our test case to have the same thing
like we did previously what can we do here.
Well let's use a hash table or an object to do something interesting.
That is to have these all these as we iterate one by one so loop through all the items add them to a
hash table.
And while we're doing that we can check to see if the property already exists or the key already exists.
We add two to the hash table then five to the hash table then one to the hash table.
And when we try to add two we can trigger a warning saying we already have two as the key so using that
logic let's see how we can implement it.
I'm going to create a map.
We'll just call it a hash map for now because the keys are going to be unique.
It's not going to let any duplicate keys and we can simply do our loops.
And in this loop all we're going to do is say if map and we can check in this map if it's empty now
the first check in here I want to say if the property or if the key already exists I want to just return
the item.
Because we don't need to do any more work.
As soon as we find a key that already exists in our hash table stop all the looping and just return.
In this case we want to return to.
So at index 0 1 2 3 it's going to return and say 2 because well this key already exists.
So the way we do that in the IF check is to simply say if and put by because remember this is going
to equal to 2 when we loop through it.
If that exists then return otherwise we will just add it to our map.
So input by is going to equal and value can be anything.
We'll just leave it at I which is the index.
So 2 is going to equal 0 5 is going to equal 1 1 is going to have to let's just console log here to
see what is happening.
But I want to also return undefined at the end in case none of this happens in case there is no match.
So at the end of the for loop we'll just cancel the dot log.
Napp and see what we have.
I'm going to run and I get five.
And there's no log what just happened here.
Well if we console log Ophir instead and take a look at what this is giving us
and run I get undefined undefined undefined zero undefined one.
What does that mean.
Well remember we're looping through here and we're saying hey does too exist.
Does input zero.
Which is to exist as a key.
So it's simply saying Napp dot to does it exist.
And because that doesn't exist we get on defined and it's going to go to next Hey does five exist.
No it doesn't.
Hey does one exist.
Hey does too exist.
And as soon as it checks to again
to it's going to say ah I already have it.
It's at index of 0.
So this is working.
However because when this gets to zero the way javascript works it put zero here but in an IF statement
zero is what we call falsie and Javascript and that has to do with type coarsen and Javascript something
that a lot of people get annoyed about with the language.
So what we would need to do is to make sure that we we specify that we want this to not equal on defined.
So as soon as it doesn't equal undefined I want you to returned this item.
Now if we run this we get two which is great if we Konsole dot log the map and run this at the bottom
here.
So we see the actual iteration that's happening we see that it adds to an index of 0 then to an index
of 0 and 5 index of 1.
So on and so forth until it stops after the third loop because it encounters to again it's going to
check and say 0 2 already exists.
Just return it.
How cool is that.
We just made this entire thing with just one loop that is way faster than our first version using hash
tables.
How cool is that for me doing things like this and seeing the power of how learning about big-O and
hash tables has improved our coding ability just gets me really really excited and I hope this gets
you excited as well.
We made this function have a time complexity of all over.
We've improved it with one downside we've increased the memory space complexity by O then because we're
creating a new object in this function that needs to keep track of all the items in the array and in
the worst case when there is no match it's going to go through the entire item list of the array and
hold that information in the map.
So we're also going to have unlike this version where we didn't create any space complexity we just
had space complexity of all of one.
We now have a little bit more but in turn we have a faster function.
Very very cool.
Now to finish off I want to give you one last challenge.
You see looking at these two implementations what happens if we have something like this.
What do you think the first recurring character is.
If I run this I get five because five occurs sooner than two two because of the way we implemented the
second function.
However if I go to the first version of our function and run this I get to Hmm why is that well if we
go to the very first part of our function we see that the way we are doing things is we are going one
by one in a different way.
We're saying grab two and then compare two with five then five then two and three than five then one
and two four and then move over to five in five and five and two and so on and so forth.
And because of the way we have that implemented it's going to detect two and two because the outer loop
has an index of 0 and has two eyes it's going through the loop before it compares five with five versus.
Our second version with a hash table where we had all these items and we were able to compare them.
Once we grabbed all of them and that's another powerful thing when you think about arrays and hash tables
and how you're able to compare things and based on what the interviewer asked you might have a wrong
answer.
Maybe they want to use to detect five and five before you detect two and two so my bonus question to
you if you have time and a bit of a challenge is to convert this function if you want into something
that matches the answer to this.
That is to detect five and five.
How would you go about doing that.
You're most likely going to have to do something interesting here.
So good luck with that.
Talk to other people on discord in our community and see if you can figure it out and I'll post some
creative solutions to that problem.
As students submit them to see how other people have implemented this.
But for now I think we deserve a break.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.